Creation of FAQ for using workflow variables to rename outputs (#5267)
galaxyproject/training-material: faqs/galaxy/workflows_variables.md

---
title: Rename outputs in a workflow using workflow variables
area: workflows
box_type: tip
layout: faq
contributors: [delphine-l]
---

Workflow text inputs can be used as parameters for tools but also in the workflow editor for renaming files. 

# Create a workflow variable

1. Open the workflow editor
2. Click on **Inputs** in the toolbar on the left
3. Click on **Simple inputs used for Workflow logic**
4. Click on the created input box in the workflow editor

> 5. Label your input. Example: `Species Name`

Reviewer: I guess it would be useful to overwrite this example name from within tutorials.

See for example https://raw.githubusercontent.com/galaxyproject/training-material/a8c16060c1a15f5109d46a10ca36d0e9dbad1597/faqs/galaxy/datasets_import_via_link.md

# Use a workflow variable to rename a dataset

> To use the workflow parameter for renaming a dataset, use the syntax: `${Parameter Name}`. For example, to rename a dataset using my species name: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the workflow parameter for renaming a dataset, use the syntax: `${Parameter Name}`. For example, to rename a dataset using the species name, proceed with the following steps: 
```

1. Open the workflow editor

> 2. Click on the tool in the workflow to get the details of the tool on the right-hand side of the screen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click on the tool in the workflow. This will open the tool configuration on the right-hand side of the screen with all details, like parameters etc.
```

3. Scroll down and click on **Configure Output**

> 4. In **Rename Dataset**, enter the new dataset name: `Tool run on ${Species Name}`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In **Rename Dataset**, enter the new dataset name: `Tool run on ${Species Name}`. `Species Name` must match the workflow variable name you created before.
```

---
title: Rename outputs in a workflow using workflow variables
area: workflows
box_type: tip
layout: faq
contributors: [delphine-l]
optional_parameters:
  var_name: Name of the workflow Variable
examples:
  Use a Species Name:
    var_name: "Species Name"
---

Workflow text inputs can be used as parameters for tools but also in the workflow editor for renaming files. 

> {% if include.var_name %}

Reviewer 2: instead of this big if case, you can also just do `{{ include.var_name | default: "Species Name" }}`  to default to a value if no include variable provided
